quicknotes.md, before:

# Quick Notes

## yyc's GitHub:

[https://github.com/yungyuc](https://github.com/yungyuc)

## Install sphinx (related)

```shell
# 安装sphinx
pip install -i http://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple/ --trusted-host mirrors.aliyun.com sphinx
# 安装sphinx_rtd_theme
pip install -i http://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple/ --trusted-host mirrors.aliyun.com sphinx_rtd_theme
# 安装markdown支持工具
pip install -i http://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple/ --trusted-host mirrors.aliyun.com recommonmark
pip install -i http://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple/ --trusted-host mirrors.aliyun.com sphinx_markdown_tables
# 或者只安装Read The Docs网站上推荐的：myst_parser
pip install -i http://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple/ --trusted-host mirrors.aliyun.com myst_parser
```

## **labuladong** 算法小抄

[https://labuladong.gitee.io/algo/](https://labuladong.gitee.io/algo/)

## Git for Windows downloads：

官网：https://github.com/git-for-windows/git/releases/

淘宝网镜像：http://npm.taobao.org/mirrors/git-for-windows/

## Github国内镜像

解决Github访问的神器

```
https://github.com.cnpmjs.org/
https://hub.fastgit.org/
https://github.wuyanzheshui.workers.dev/
```

## kernel.org国内镜像

北京交通大学

[https://mirror.bjtu.edu.cn/kernel/linux/kernel/](https://mirror.bjtu.edu.cn/kernel/linux/kernel/)

清华大学

[https://mirror.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/kernel/](https://mirror.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/kernel/)

南京大学

[https://mirrors.nju.edu.cn/](https://mirrors.nju.edu.cn/)

## How-to ReadTheDoc articles

[https://www.jianshu.com/p/058440ed14df](https://www.jianshu.com/p/058440ed14d)

[https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/380889131](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/380889131)

## Gitee笔记首页示例

[http://hollischuang.gitee.io/tobetopjavaer/#/basics/object-oriented/object-oriented-vs-procedure-oriented](http://hollischuang.gitee.io/tobetopjavaer/#/basics/object-oriented/object-oriented-vs-procedure-oriented)

## Sphnix + reStructuredText + ReadTheDocs Tutorial

- [Series From youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pzzjW0Xv_gk&list=PLPDCBPbzk1AYghqYazE7Cxt3p7edml8I7&index=1)

## 欧路词典词库

[https://mdx.mdict.org/](https://mdx.mdict.org/)

## Github 加速

[github访问加速](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/75994966?utm_source=wechat_session)

## GitHub Speedup (diff ways)

[Github加速的10种方式](https://www.cnblogs.com/shuangxinyuan/p/15506449.html)

## Compiler Explorer

[gcc.godbolt.org](https://gcc.godbolt.org)

## Use GDB in Geany

[The Geany](https://www.geany.org/)

[https://www.zhihu.com/question/65306462/answer/2603110780](https://www.zhihu.com/question/65306462/answer/2603110780)

## 百度网盘搜索 - 知乎文章

[15个好用的百度网盘搜索引擎 - crystal的文章 - 知乎](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/60840594)

## Use homebrew mirror URLs from Tsinghua university

[Homebrew / Linuxbrew 镜像使用帮助](https://mirrors.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/help/homebrew/)

[Homebrew 国内使用加速](https://www.cnblogs.com/cocowool/p/speedup-homebrew.html)


## Z-library how-to-find

[Pirate Library Mirror](http://pilimi.org/)

[Zlibrary 最新入口](https://find.looks.wang/)

[易书论坛 Zlibrary](https://bbs.yibook.org/)

[Zlibrary Pro Helper](https://zlib.pro/)

https://nav.yibook.org/

https://www.pdfdrive.com/

https://xmsoushu.com/#/

## Add icon for html files generated by sphinx

> Thanks to @StevePiercy I found this documentation: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/configuration.html#confval-html_favicon
> 
> conf.py
> 
> `html_favicon = 'favicon.ico'`
> 
> I put favicon.ico in my source folder, next to my .rst-files and it is working as expected: https://global-coffee-data-standard.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html



## Router OS Software Tutorial - OpenWrt Tutrial

[https://youtu.be/L5XyXAfJhGc?si=-q14mao3WISQ3BCf](https://youtu.be/L5XyXAfJhGc?si=-q14mao3WISQ3BCf)


## Words

At the outset 在开始时：在某个活动、计划或过程的最初阶段或起始点。

harking back to 回想或回到过去的某个事物或时期


## CUDA Doc

[如何学习cuda编程？ - 神经旷野舞者的回答 - 知乎](https://www.zhihu.com/question/62996995/answer/3489398460)

[CUDA C++ Programming Guide](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-c-programming-guide/index.html)

[CUDA Toolkit Documentation 12.4 Update 1](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/)

[CUDA C++ Programming Guide - PDF](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/pdf/CUDA_C_Programming_Guide.pdf)


## Flex & Bison by John Levine

[Flex & Bison by John Levine](https://www.cse.scu.edu/~m1wang/compiler/TutorialFlexBison.pdf)

## Cython

[Cython - C-Extensions for Python](https://cython.org/)

[Cython 是什么？为什么会有 Cython？](https://blog.csdn.net/chinesehuazhou2/article/details/125252492)

## Springer Freed Books

[Springer Freed Books (how to get)](https://blog.csdn.net/chinesehuazhou2/article/details/105886797?spm=1001.2014.3001.5502)

## SageMath

[SageMath - A free open-source mathematics software system](https://www.sagemath.org/index.html)

[SageMath - GitHub](https://github.com/sagemath/sage)

## NumPy, Cython and PyTorch convert to each other

[numpy、cupy、pytorch数组对象的相互转换](https://blog.csdn.net/BigerBang/article/details/127904816)

## Linux command htop

Reference link [What exactly do the colors in htop status bars mean? - Stack Exchange](https://serverfault.com/questions/180711/what-exactly-do-the-colors-in-htop-status-bars-mean)

After type the following command to show the process status, you could type `F1` or `h` to see the help doc.

```shell
htop -u myUserName
```

## pybind11：实现ndarray转C++原生数组

[pybind11：实现ndarray转C++原生数组](https://blog.csdn.net/qq_74083422/article/details/134921722)

## PyTorch算子底层源码解读--Tensor

[PyTorch算子底层源码解读--Tensor - 硅仙人的文章 - 知乎](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/465696096)

[Pytorch 源码阅读 —— Tensor C++相关实现](https://blog.csdn.net/Chris_zhangrx/article/details/119086815)

[pytorch基于intrusive_ptr_target实现的核心数据结构介绍](https://blog.csdn.net/weixin_43969854/article/details/129348171)

[PyTorch项目源码学习（2）——Tensor代码结构初步学习 2024-01-10](https://blog.csdn.net/intmeX/article/details/135509288)

[PyTorch internals May 14, 2019](http://blog.ezyang.com/2019/05/pytorch-internals/)


## Words

on par with 和...（处于）同等水平


## Python code class inherits from a Boost.Python wrapped class to use its base class methods

[Create derived python class from a c++ class using Boost Python - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34404224/create-derived-python-class-from-a-c-class-using-boost-python)

如果 class B 是一个Python实现的 class，而 class A 是由 Boost.Python wrapped 的class。

如果 class B 继承了 class A，并且 在 B 中（或B的object对象）要使用 A 的函数（方法）等，如下写的方法会报错，

```cpp
BOOST_PYTHON_MODULE(libgla) {
    using namespace boost::python;

    // ...

    class_<A_cpp_class>("A", init<>())
            .def("check", &A_cpp_class::check_internal);

    // ...
};
```

```python
class B(A):
  def __init__(self):
    self.foobar = 0

  def debug(self):
    self.check() # <------- Error will be reported !
```

原因是在 B 的初始化函数中，并没有调用 A 的初始化函数，导致 B 并不是一个合法的继承于 A 的class。

所以 B 需要在 Python 中修改如下，

```python
class B(A):
  def __init__(self):
    A.__init__(self)  # <------ Should call A's initialization func
    self.foobar = 0

  def debug(self):
    self.check() # <------- Now it's ok to call methods from the base class (A)
```

## Store C++ pointers as integers

Short : use `std::uintptr_t` instead of `int`, `long`, ...

[Converting a pointer into an integer - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/153065/converting-a-pointer-into-an-integer/26586211#26586211)


## Wrapped class by Boost.Python

Boost Python Exposing C++ class with constructor taking a std::list

[Boost Python Exposing C++ class with constructor taking a std::list](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56290774/boost-python-exposing-c-class-with-constructor-taking-a-stdlist)

## CMake - How to specify include paths

[How to properly add include directories with CMake - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13703647/how-to-properly-add-include-directories-with-cmake)


## 为什么要有 PyCapsule

[Python Capsules - Bradly Froehle - ](https://bfroehle.com/2011/07/18/python-capsules/)

看上去就是在一个Python module 中包装一个指针，然后可以在另一个Python module中使用它。

## Microsoft ISO Download

[https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/694318994](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/694318994)



## GCC and Make, Compiling, Linking and Building, C/C++ Applications

[GCC and Make Compiling, Linking and Building C/C++ Applications](https://www3.ntu.edu.sg/home/ehchua/programming/cpp/gcc_make.html)

## Build GCC from source

[https://medium.com/@darrenjs/building-gcc-from-source-dcc368a3bb70](https://medium.com/@darrenjs/building-gcc-from-source-dcc368a3bb70)

## 判断点在多边形内部的算法

[有哪些算法惊艳到了你？ - Yixiao Huang的回答 - 知乎](https://www.zhihu.com/question/26934313/answer/3528590082)

## Coding Patterns for Python Extensions

[Coding Patterns for Python Extensions - GitHub](https://pythonextensionpatterns.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)

## Cheat sheet for apt

[OSDC Cheat sheet - apt](https://opensource.com/sites/default/files/gated-content/osdc_cheatsheet-apt-2021.5.30.pdf)



## Debugging Your Parser - Bison 3.8.1

[Debugging Your Parser - Bison 3.8.1 - GNU](https://www.gnu.org/software/bison/manual/bison.html#Debugging)

## Linux/Unix exec system call family

[The exec family of system calls](https://www2.it.uu.se/education/course/homepage/os/vt18/module-2/exec/)

[How to debug the entry-point of fork-exec process in GDB? - StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/377195/how-to-debug-the-entry-point-of-fork-exec-process-in-gdb)

## How would I extract a single file (or changes to a file) from a git stash?

[How would I extract a single file (or changes to a file) from a git stash? - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1105253/how-would-i-extract-a-single-file-or-changes-to-a-file-from-a-git-stash)

For example, to check out a specific file `<filename>` from stash `0`,

```shell
git checkout stash@{0} -- <filename>
```

## Ctrl+H broken in tmux + vim

[Scribler on Feb 16, 2023 · edited by Scribler](https://github.com/Swordfish90/cool-retro-term/issues/748#issuecomment-1432228044)

> I was having this same issue, but I found a solution on unix.stackexchange
> It makes tmux send Ctrl-H when Backspace is pressed and solved the issue for me
>
> [https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/180087/why-pressing-ctrl-h-in-xterm-tmux-sends/180106#180106](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/180087/why-pressing-ctrl-h-in-xterm-tmux-sends/180106#180106)
>
> Just add the following toy $HOME/.tmux.conf file worked:
>
> ```shell
> bind-key -n Bspace send-keys C-h
> ```
>
> This link also had some insite into why it might be happening
> [christoomey/vim-tmux-navigator#61](https://github.com/christoomey/vim-tmux-navigator/issues/61)
>
> hope this helps

## Generating a parser using yacc - IBM

[Important symbols used for debugging - Generating a parser using yacc - IBM](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/zos/2.4.0?topic=topics-important-symbols-used-debugging)

## 8. Debugging Your Parser

[8. Debugging Your Parser - Table of Contents](https://fog.misty.com/perry/osp/references/bison/by-chapter/bison_11.html)

[Bison manual - GNU](https://www.gnu.org/software/bison/manual/)

## Create image by dot with ordering

[How can I control within level node order in graphviz's dot? - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44274518/how-can-i-control-within-level-node-order-in-graphvizs-dot)

> I hit the same snag, and discovered the magic incantation is `ordering=out`
> My full example looks like this:
> ```dot
> digraph game_tree {
> node [shape = circle, ordering=out];
> f, h [shape=doublecircle, color=red];
> k, n [shape=doublecircle, color=blue];
> l, m [shape=doublecircle];
> a -> b [label=1];
> a -> c [label=2];
> a -> d [label=3];
> b -> e [label=4];
> b -> f [label=5];
> c -> g [label=4];
> c -> h [label=5];
> d -> i [label=4];
> d -> j [label=5];
> e -> k [label=6];
> g -> l [label=6];
> i -> m [label=7];
> j -> n [label=8];
> }

所以，关键就是在生成的`.dot`文件开始，加入`node [ordering=out]`这一句，`shape=circle`可以不加。

而如果要在command line中实现，可以使用Option `-N<name>=<val>`，其中`name`就是`ordering`，`val`就是`out`。

```shell
dot atmp.dot -Nordering=out -Tpng atmp.dot
```

## PDF to images

[Python - Extract a PDF page as a jpeg - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46184239/python-extract-a-pdf-page-as-a-jpeg)

How to change the DPI when converting: [How do i set the resolution of the pixmap for a page](https://github.com/pymupdf/PyMuPDF/issues/181)

## Git command to show conflict files only when rebasing a branch

```sh
git diff --name-only --diff-filter=U
```

## 处理 git base 时出现的conflict问题

当使用`git rebase <master-branch>`这个命令时，可能出现conflict的情况：

```sh
... ...
error: could not apply 2c2b01b1289... XXXXX
hint: Resolve all conflicts manually, mark them as resolved with
hint: "git add/rm <conflicted_files>", then run "git rebase --continue".
hint: You can instead skip this commit: run "git rebase --skip".
hint: To abort and get back to the state before "git rebase", run "git rebase --abort".
Could not apply 2c2b01b1289... XXXXX
```

如果查看`git status`，就发现，如果使用交互式resolve conflict的办法来做rebase，那么
需要执行多次command才能完成，如下：

```sh
Last commands done (4 commands done):
   pick 28584bab196 XXXXX
   pick 29c1e14191f XXXXX
  (see more in file .git/rebase-merge/done)
Next commands to do (39 remaining commands):
   pick a8a34cd7940 XXXXX
   pick c0e90fff664 XXXXX
  (use "git rebase --edit-todo" to view and edit)
You are currently rebasing branch '<local-branch>' on 'b758c7d5b6e'.
  (fix conflicts and then run "git rebase --continue")
  (use "git rebase --skip" to skip this patch)
  (use "git rebase --abort" to check out the original branch)

Unmerged paths:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
  (use "git add <file>..." to mark resolution)
        both modified:   <path/to/file.cpp>
```

此时可以使用两种办法来解决冲突，并完成`git rebase`。

### 手动处理

这个办法是交互式处理的办法，即每次执行：

```sh
git checkout --theirs <files_to_resolve>
```

这个命令是对于当前rebase时，需要resolve的文件，直接使用`theirs`的改动来覆盖当前
branch上对应的文件。`<files_to_resolve>`可以通过`git status`查看。

执行完上面的命令之后，需要把这个（或这些resolve的）文件依次add：

```sh
git add <files_after_resolved>
```

然后继续rebase：

```sh
git rebase --continue
```

此时就会进行下一次的resolve conflict，重复上述过程，直到完成所有conflict resolve的
操作，最后才能完成rebase。

### 自动处理

如果需要执行很多次交互式的命令，但每次都只需要从`theirs`的改动覆盖当前branch的文件上，
那么可以使用recursive的命令。

首先，如果当前已经在rebase的过程中了，那么需要先把退出当前的rebase：

```sh
git rebase --abort
```

然后，使用如下命令，递归完成apply theirs changes的操作：

```sh
git rebase -s recursive -X theirs master
```

这个命令会对所有需要resolve conflict的命令都依次执行`git checkout --theirs`的操作。

完成上面递归命令之后，继续rebase即可：

```sh
git rebase --continue
```

## PlantUML in Sphinx (using MyST Markdown) and GitLab

MyST-parser集成PlantUML？

[PlantUML in Sphinx (using MyST Markdown) and GitLab](https://smhk.net/note/2023/11/plantuml-in-sphinx-using-myst-and-gitlab/)

## Check differences of a file in git stash

查看文件和其对应的working tree中文件的差异

```sh
git difftool stash@{0} -- <file-path>
```

查看文件和最新的commit的文件的差异

```sh
git difftool stash@{0} HEAD -- <file-path>
```

## Start conditions of lex rules, and tokenizer states

[Start conditions of lex rules, and tokenizer states](https://gist.github.com/DmitrySoshnikov/f5e2583b37e8f758c789cea9dcdf238a)




## Z-library URLs

电子书最新地址 本页面提供Z-library（Zlibrary）最新地址、镜像、客户端下载等信息，帮助您安全访问Zlibrary电子书资源。
https://book.clouds.pp.ua/

Z-library
https://zh.zlibm.ru/


## Error when to install leaderF's C extension: ssl support is missing

Reference: [pip is configured with locations that require TLS/SSL, ...](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/45954528/pip-is-configured-with-locations-that-require-tls-ssl-however-the-ssl-module-in)

```shell
WARNING: Disabling truststore since ssl support is missing
WARNING: pip is configured with locations that require TLS/SSL, however the ssl module in Python is not available.
Could not fetch URL https://pypi.org/simple/pip/: There was a problem confirming the ssl certificate: HTTPSConnectionPool(host='pypi.org', port=443): Max retries exceeded with url: /simple/pip/ (Caused by SSLError("Can't connect to HTTPS URL because the SSL module is not available.")) - skipping
ERROR: No matching distribution found for neovim
```

Reason why: missing SSL lib files.

How to fix (Ubuntu):

```shell
apt-get install libssl-dev
```

Commit message:

Add a link to how to fix ssl issue when using LeaderF in neovim.

quicknotes.md, after:

# Quick Notes

## yyc's GitHub:

[https://github.com/yungyuc](https://github.com/yungyuc)

## Install sphinx (related)

```shell
# 安装sphinx
pip install -i http://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple/ --trusted-host mirrors.aliyun.com sphinx
# 安装sphinx_rtd_theme
pip install -i http://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple/ --trusted-host mirrors.aliyun.com sphinx_rtd_theme
# 安装markdown支持工具
pip install -i http://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple/ --trusted-host mirrors.aliyun.com recommonmark
pip install -i http://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple/ --trusted-host mirrors.aliyun.com sphinx_markdown_tables
# 或者只安装Read The Docs网站上推荐的：myst_parser
pip install -i http://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple/ --trusted-host mirrors.aliyun.com myst_parser
```

## **labuladong** 算法小抄

[https://labuladong.gitee.io/algo/](https://labuladong.gitee.io/algo/)

## Git for Windows downloads：

官网：https://github.com/git-for-windows/git/releases/

淘宝网镜像：http://npm.taobao.org/mirrors/git-for-windows/

## Github国内镜像

解决Github访问的神器

```
https://github.com.cnpmjs.org/
https://hub.fastgit.org/
https://github.wuyanzheshui.workers.dev/
```

## kernel.org国内镜像

北京交通大学

[https://mirror.bjtu.edu.cn/kernel/linux/kernel/](https://mirror.bjtu.edu.cn/kernel/linux/kernel/)

清华大学

[https://mirror.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/kernel/](https://mirror.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/kernel/)

南京大学

[https://mirrors.nju.edu.cn/](https://mirrors.nju.edu.cn/)

## How-to ReadTheDoc articles

[https://www.jianshu.com/p/058440ed14df](https://www.jianshu.com/p/058440ed14d)

[https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/380889131](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/380889131)

## Gitee笔记首页示例

[http://hollischuang.gitee.io/tobetopjavaer/#/basics/object-oriented/object-oriented-vs-procedure-oriented](http://hollischuang.gitee.io/tobetopjavaer/#/basics/object-oriented/object-oriented-vs-procedure-oriented)

## Sphnix + reStructuredText + ReadTheDocs Tutorial

- [Series From youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pzzjW0Xv_gk&list=PLPDCBPbzk1AYghqYazE7Cxt3p7edml8I7&index=1)

## 欧路词典词库

[https://mdx.mdict.org/](https://mdx.mdict.org/)

## Github 加速

[github访问加速](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/75994966?utm_source=wechat_session)

## GitHub Speedup (diff ways)

[Github加速的10种方式](https://www.cnblogs.com/shuangxinyuan/p/15506449.html)

## Compiler Explorer

[gcc.godbolt.org](https://gcc.godbolt.org)

## Use GDB in Geany

[The Geany](https://www.geany.org/)

[https://www.zhihu.com/question/65306462/answer/2603110780](https://www.zhihu.com/question/65306462/answer/2603110780)

## 百度网盘搜索 - 知乎文章

[15个好用的百度网盘搜索引擎 - crystal的文章 - 知乎](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/60840594)

## Use homebrew mirror URLs from Tsinghua university

[Homebrew / Linuxbrew 镜像使用帮助](https://mirrors.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/help/homebrew/)

[Homebrew 国内使用加速](https://www.cnblogs.com/cocowool/p/speedup-homebrew.html)


## Z-library how-to-find

[Pirate Library Mirror](http://pilimi.org/)

[Zlibrary 最新入口](https://find.looks.wang/)

[易书论坛 Zlibrary](https://bbs.yibook.org/)

[Zlibrary Pro Helper](https://zlib.pro/)

https://nav.yibook.org/

https://www.pdfdrive.com/

https://xmsoushu.com/#/

## Add icon for html files generated by sphinx

> Thanks to @StevePiercy I found this documentation: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/configuration.html#confval-html_favicon
> 
> conf.py
> 
> `html_favicon = 'favicon.ico'`
> 
> I put favicon.ico in my source folder, next to my .rst-files and it is working as expected: https://global-coffee-data-standard.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html



## Router OS Software Tutorial - OpenWrt Tutrial

[https://youtu.be/L5XyXAfJhGc?si=-q14mao3WISQ3BCf](https://youtu.be/L5XyXAfJhGc?si=-q14mao3WISQ3BCf)


## Words

At the outset 在开始时：在某个活动、计划或过程的最初阶段或起始点。

harking back to 回想或回到过去的某个事物或时期


## CUDA Doc

[如何学习cuda编程？ - 神经旷野舞者的回答 - 知乎](https://www.zhihu.com/question/62996995/answer/3489398460)

[CUDA C++ Programming Guide](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-c-programming-guide/index.html)

[CUDA Toolkit Documentation 12.4 Update 1](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/)

[CUDA C++ Programming Guide - PDF](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/pdf/CUDA_C_Programming_Guide.pdf)


## Flex & Bison by John Levine

[Flex & Bison by John Levine](https://www.cse.scu.edu/~m1wang/compiler/TutorialFlexBison.pdf)

## Cython

[Cython - C-Extensions for Python](https://cython.org/)

[Cython 是什么？为什么会有 Cython？](https://blog.csdn.net/chinesehuazhou2/article/details/125252492)

## Springer Freed Books

[Springer Freed Books (how to get)](https://blog.csdn.net/chinesehuazhou2/article/details/105886797?spm=1001.2014.3001.5502)

## SageMath

[SageMath - A free open-source mathematics software system](https://www.sagemath.org/index.html)

[SageMath - GitHub](https://github.com/sagemath/sage)

## NumPy, Cython and PyTorch convert to each other

[numpy、cupy、pytorch数组对象的相互转换](https://blog.csdn.net/BigerBang/article/details/127904816)

## Linux command htop

Reference link [What exactly do the colors in htop status bars mean? - Stack Exchange](https://serverfault.com/questions/180711/what-exactly-do-the-colors-in-htop-status-bars-mean)

After type the following command to show the process status, you could type `F1` or `h` to see the help doc.

```shell
htop -u myUserName
```

## pybind11：实现ndarray转C++原生数组

[pybind11：实现ndarray转C++原生数组](https://blog.csdn.net/qq_74083422/article/details/134921722)

## PyTorch算子底层源码解读--Tensor

[PyTorch算子底层源码解读--Tensor - 硅仙人的文章 - 知乎](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/465696096)

[Pytorch 源码阅读 —— Tensor C++相关实现](https://blog.csdn.net/Chris_zhangrx/article/details/119086815)

[pytorch基于intrusive_ptr_target实现的核心数据结构介绍](https://blog.csdn.net/weixin_43969854/article/details/129348171)

[PyTorch项目源码学习（2）——Tensor代码结构初步学习 2024-01-10](https://blog.csdn.net/intmeX/article/details/135509288)

[PyTorch internals May 14, 2019](http://blog.ezyang.com/2019/05/pytorch-internals/)


## Words

on par with 和...（处于）同等水平


## Python code class inherits from a Boost.Python wrapped class to use its base class methods

[Create derived python class from a c++ class using Boost Python - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34404224/create-derived-python-class-from-a-c-class-using-boost-python)

如果 class B 是一个Python实现的 class，而 class A 是由 Boost.Python wrapped 的class。

如果 class B 继承了 class A，并且 在 B 中（或B的object对象）要使用 A 的函数（方法）等，如下写的方法会报错，

```cpp
BOOST_PYTHON_MODULE(libgla) {
    using namespace boost::python;

    // ...

    class_<A_cpp_class>("A", init<>())
            .def("check", &A_cpp_class::check_internal);

    // ...
};
```

```python
class B(A):
  def __init__(self):
    self.foobar = 0

  def debug(self):
    self.check() # <------- Error will be reported !
```

原因是在 B 的初始化函数中，并没有调用 A 的初始化函数，导致 B 并不是一个合法的继承于 A 的class。

所以 B 需要在 Python 中修改如下，

```python
class B(A):
  def __init__(self):
    A.__init__(self)  # <------ Should call A's initialization func
    self.foobar = 0

  def debug(self):
    self.check() # <------- Now it's ok to call methods from the base class (A)
```

## Store C++ pointers as integers

Short : use `std::uintptr_t` instead of `int`, `long`, ...

[Converting a pointer into an integer - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/153065/converting-a-pointer-into-an-integer/26586211#26586211)


## Wrapped class by Boost.Python

Boost Python Exposing C++ class with constructor taking a std::list

[Boost Python Exposing C++ class with constructor taking a std::list](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56290774/boost-python-exposing-c-class-with-constructor-taking-a-stdlist)

## CMake - How to specify include paths

[How to properly add include directories with CMake - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/13703647/how-to-properly-add-include-directories-with-cmake)


## 为什么要有 PyCapsule

[Python Capsules - Bradly Froehle - ](https://bfroehle.com/2011/07/18/python-capsules/)

看上去就是在一个Python module 中包装一个指针，然后可以在另一个Python module中使用它。

## Microsoft ISO Download

[https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/694318994](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/694318994)



## GCC and Make, Compiling, Linking and Building, C/C++ Applications

[GCC and Make Compiling, Linking and Building C/C++ Applications](https://www3.ntu.edu.sg/home/ehchua/programming/cpp/gcc_make.html)

## Build GCC from source

[https://medium.com/@darrenjs/building-gcc-from-source-dcc368a3bb70](https://medium.com/@darrenjs/building-gcc-from-source-dcc368a3bb70)

## 判断点在多边形内部的算法

[有哪些算法惊艳到了你？ - Yixiao Huang的回答 - 知乎](https://www.zhihu.com/question/26934313/answer/3528590082)

## Coding Patterns for Python Extensions

[Coding Patterns for Python Extensions - GitHub](https://pythonextensionpatterns.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)

## Cheat sheet for apt

[OSDC Cheat sheet - apt](https://opensource.com/sites/default/files/gated-content/osdc_cheatsheet-apt-2021.5.30.pdf)



## Debugging Your Parser - Bison 3.8.1

[Debugging Your Parser - Bison 3.8.1 - GNU](https://www.gnu.org/software/bison/manual/bison.html#Debugging)

## Linux/Unix exec system call family

[The exec family of system calls](https://www2.it.uu.se/education/course/homepage/os/vt18/module-2/exec/)

[How to debug the entry-point of fork-exec process in GDB? - StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/377195/how-to-debug-the-entry-point-of-fork-exec-process-in-gdb)

## How would I extract a single file (or changes to a file) from a git stash?

[How would I extract a single file (or changes to a file) from a git stash? - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1105253/how-would-i-extract-a-single-file-or-changes-to-a-file-from-a-git-stash)

For example, to check out a specific file `<filename>` from stash `0`,

```shell
git checkout stash@{0} -- <filename>
```

## Ctrl+H broken in tmux + vim

[Scribler on Feb 16, 2023 · edited by Scribler](https://github.com/Swordfish90/cool-retro-term/issues/748#issuecomment-1432228044)

> I was having this same issue, but I found a solution on unix.stackexchange
> It makes tmux send Ctrl-H when Backspace is pressed and solved the issue for me
>
> [https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/180087/why-pressing-ctrl-h-in-xterm-tmux-sends/180106#180106](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/180087/why-pressing-ctrl-h-in-xterm-tmux-sends/180106#180106)
>
> Just add the following toy $HOME/.tmux.conf file worked:
>
> ```shell
> bind-key -n Bspace send-keys C-h
> ```
>
> This link also had some insite into why it might be happening
> [christoomey/vim-tmux-navigator#61](https://github.com/christoomey/vim-tmux-navigator/issues/61)
>
> hope this helps

## Generating a parser using yacc - IBM

[Important symbols used for debugging - Generating a parser using yacc - IBM](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/zos/2.4.0?topic=topics-important-symbols-used-debugging)

## 8. Debugging Your Parser

[8. Debugging Your Parser - Table of Contents](https://fog.misty.com/perry/osp/references/bison/by-chapter/bison_11.html)

[Bison manual - GNU](https://www.gnu.org/software/bison/manual/)

## Create image by dot with ordering

[How can I control within level node order in graphviz's dot? - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44274518/how-can-i-control-within-level-node-order-in-graphvizs-dot)

> I hit the same snag, and discovered the magic incantation is `ordering=out`
> My full example looks like this:
> ```dot
> digraph game_tree {
> node [shape = circle, ordering=out];
> f, h [shape=doublecircle, color=red];
> k, n [shape=doublecircle, color=blue];
> l, m [shape=doublecircle];
> a -> b [label=1];
> a -> c [label=2];
> a -> d [label=3];
> b -> e [label=4];
> b -> f [label=5];
> c -> g [label=4];
> c -> h [label=5];
> d -> i [label=4];
> d -> j [label=5];
> e -> k [label=6];
> g -> l [label=6];
> i -> m [label=7];
> j -> n [label=8];
> }

所以，关键就是在生成的`.dot`文件开始，加入`node [ordering=out]`这一句，`shape=circle`可以不加。

而如果要在command line中实现，可以使用Option `-N<name>=<val>`，其中`name`就是`ordering`，`val`就是`out`。

```shell
dot atmp.dot -Nordering=out -Tpng atmp.dot
```

## PDF to images

[Python - Extract a PDF page as a jpeg - Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46184239/python-extract-a-pdf-page-as-a-jpeg)

How to change the DPI when converting: [How do i set the resolution of the pixmap for a page](https://github.com/pymupdf/PyMuPDF/issues/181)

## Git command to show conflict files only when rebasing a branch

```sh
git diff --name-only --diff-filter=U
```

## 处理 git base 时出现的conflict问题

当使用`git rebase <master-branch>`这个命令时，可能出现conflict的情况：

```sh
... ...
error: could not apply 2c2b01b1289... XXXXX
hint: Resolve all conflicts manually, mark them as resolved with
hint: "git add/rm <conflicted_files>", then run "git rebase --continue".
hint: You can instead skip this commit: run "git rebase --skip".
hint: To abort and get back to the state before "git rebase", run "git rebase --abort".
Could not apply 2c2b01b1289... XXXXX
```

如果查看`git status`，就发现，如果使用交互式resolve conflict的办法来做rebase，那么
需要执行多次command才能完成，如下：

```sh
Last commands done (4 commands done):
   pick 28584bab196 XXXXX
   pick 29c1e14191f XXXXX
  (see more in file .git/rebase-merge/done)
Next commands to do (39 remaining commands):
   pick a8a34cd7940 XXXXX
   pick c0e90fff664 XXXXX
  (use "git rebase --edit-todo" to view and edit)
You are currently rebasing branch '<local-branch>' on 'b758c7d5b6e'.
  (fix conflicts and then run "git rebase --continue")
  (use "git rebase --skip" to skip this patch)
  (use "git rebase --abort" to check out the original branch)

Unmerged paths:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
  (use "git add <file>..." to mark resolution)
        both modified:   <path/to/file.cpp>
```

此时可以使用两种办法来解决冲突，并完成`git rebase`。

### 手动处理

这个办法是交互式处理的办法，即每次执行：

```sh
git checkout --theirs <files_to_resolve>
```

这个命令是对于当前rebase时，需要resolve的文件，直接使用`theirs`的改动来覆盖当前
branch上对应的文件。`<files_to_resolve>`可以通过`git status`查看。

执行完上面的命令之后，需要把这个（或这些resolve的）文件依次add：

```sh
git add <files_after_resolved>
```

然后继续rebase：

```sh
git rebase --continue
```

此时就会进行下一次的resolve conflict，重复上述过程，直到完成所有conflict resolve的
操作，最后才能完成rebase。

### 自动处理

如果需要执行很多次交互式的命令，但每次都只需要从`theirs`的改动覆盖当前branch的文件上，
那么可以使用recursive的命令。

首先，如果当前已经在rebase的过程中了，那么需要先把退出当前的rebase：

```sh
git rebase --abort
```

然后，使用如下命令，递归完成apply theirs changes的操作：

```sh
git rebase -s recursive -X theirs master
```

这个命令会对所有需要resolve conflict的命令都依次执行`git checkout --theirs`的操作。

完成上面递归命令之后，继续rebase即可：

```sh
git rebase --continue
```

## PlantUML in Sphinx (using MyST Markdown) and GitLab

MyST-parser集成PlantUML？

[PlantUML in Sphinx (using MyST Markdown) and GitLab](https://smhk.net/note/2023/11/plantuml-in-sphinx-using-myst-and-gitlab/)

## Check differences of a file in git stash

查看文件和其对应的working tree中文件的差异

```sh
git difftool stash@{0} -- <file-path>
```

查看文件和最新的commit的文件的差异

```sh
git difftool stash@{0} HEAD -- <file-path>
```

## Start conditions of lex rules, and tokenizer states

[Start conditions of lex rules, and tokenizer states](https://gist.github.com/DmitrySoshnikov/f5e2583b37e8f758c789cea9dcdf238a)




## Z-library URLs

电子书最新地址 本页面提供Z-library（Zlibrary）最新地址、镜像、客户端下载等信息，帮助您安全访问Zlibrary电子书资源。
https://book.clouds.pp.ua/

Z-library
https://zh.zlibm.ru/


## Error when to install leaderF's C extension: ssl support is missing

Reference:

1. [pip is configured with locations that require TLS/SSL, ...](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/45954528/pip-is-configured-with-locations-that-require-tls-ssl-however-the-ssl-module-in)
2. ["Failed to load python3 host" on NeoVim](https://github.com/fsharp/zarchive-vim-fsharp/issues/96)

```shell
WARNING: Disabling truststore since ssl support is missing
WARNING: pip is configured with locations that require TLS/SSL, however the ssl module in Python is not available.
Could not fetch URL https://pypi.org/simple/pip/: There was a problem confirming the ssl certificate: HTTPSConnectionPool(host='pypi.org', port=443): Max retries exceeded with url: /simple/pip/ (Caused by SSLError("Can't connect to HTTPS URL because the SSL module is not available.")) - skipping
ERROR: No matching distribution found for neovim
```

Reason why: missing SSL lib files.

How to fix (Ubuntu):

```shell
apt-get install libssl-dev
```

Same error happened when installing LeadF in neovim/vim.
